---
title: 'How to translate ChaoShanHua to PuTongHua? '
date: 2021-10-01
header: 
    teaser: "../images/posts/how-to-translate-chaoshanhua-to-putonghua/teaser.png"
---

Why this blog? 
=====
I am from ChaoShan region, Guangdong. There is a dialect called ChaoshanHua widely spoken in ChaoShan region. ChaoshanHua is greatly different from PutongHua, a widely-accepted, standard language spoken in China, due to its isolation geologically and cultural traditions. For example, PutongHua is believed as one of the most difficult language, because it's based on graphy-based character and it contains 21 consonants, 13 vowels and 4 tones. While ChaoshanHua has no characters and it contains 18 consonants, 64 vowels and 8 tones. It's insantly difficult for non-local residents to learn how to speak ChaoshanHua. The core reasons for its complixity are: 

- Geologically: ChaoShan region contains mountainous area in which communities, villages are seperated by mountains. People there hardly communicate with the outsiders due to this inconvenience. It's discovered that many ancient pronounciations date back to Qin Dynasty (200 B.C.) are found in ChaoshanHua! 
- Culturally: The geological isolation exacerbates the cultural isolation of Chaoshan region. People married, commercialized with local residences, which endows the anti-diversity social attitude. Chaoshan region's undevelopment situation in many aspects is highly correlated with the anti-diversity attitude. 
- Ideologically: It was quite feudal in Chaoshan region in 30-40 years ago, for example, women are greatly less literated than men, and family culture is widely accepted. It's believe that a qualified, excellent woman is someone who takes care of the family. 

By reading here, you may understand my feelings about my hometown. Even though we are developing in these 15 years due to the devepment of China, many people, especially middle-aged women, are unable to recognized the PutongHua. They are simply unwelcomed to the new era! My mom, as a typical womon in Chaoshan region, took good care of her 4 children, and we are all college students now, but she is remained unliterated as many women out there do. 

One of my goals to learn computer science is I want to implement a translator which can translate PutongHua to ChaoshanHua. In my C++ project when I was a fresh man, I implemented one which translate the PutongHua to characters by [Xunfei]() API, and then convert the characters to ChaoshanHua according to the pre-recorded audio. It's far from satisfaction because our program doesn't take semantics into consideration! Due to its complexity, it postponed this project, and continued my study on computer science. Thanks to deep learning I learned under supervision of my advisor Prof. Si Wu, I am reconsidering this project! 

Therefore, this blog will show you how this project is working on! 

# Seq2Seq 



